-== [ www.OpenSubtitles.org ] ==-
Laura: IF I HAD A
REMEMBRANCE BOOK.
I WOULD SURELY WRITE ABOUT
THE DAY WE CAME TO PLUM CREEK
AND FIRST SAW THE
HOUSE IN THE GROUND.
I CAN REMEMBER PA AND MR. HANSON
AND HOW THEY WALKED
AND LOOKED AND TALKED
AND HOW WE WONDERED
WHAT THEY SAID.
YOU KNOW. THERE IS
NO HURRY. MR. INGALLS.
IF I WERE IN YOUR BOOTS. I
WOULD THINK ON IT AND SLEEP ON IT.
NOTHING TO THINK ABOUT.
MR. HANSON. MY MIND'S MADE UP.
I'LL BE IN WALNUT GROVE TOMORROW
MORNING TO SIGN THE PAPERS.
ALL RIGHT. I'LL BE AT THE MILL.
- I'LL SEE YOU THEN.
- RIGHT.
- AND THANK YOU.
- THANK YOU.
WELL. INGALLS FAMILY. SOON AS
YOU GET DONE SOAKING YOUR FEET.
WE GOT A WAGON TO UNLOAD.
WE'RE HOME?
WE'RE HOME.
Laura: PA LEFT PLUM CREEK AT DAYBREAK
AND WORKED ALL DAY IN HANSON'S MILL
EARNING LUMBER HE
NEEDED TO BUILD US A HOUSE.
PET AND PATTY. OUR TEAM HORSES.
WEREN'T BIG ENOUGH TO PULL THE PLOW
PA NEEDED TO BREAK THE PRAIRIE SOD.
THOUGH WE WERE
SORRY TO SEE THEM GO.
PA SWAPPED THEM TO
MR. HANSON FOR A SPAN OF OXEN.
STRONG ENOUGH PA SAID TO PULL THE
STATE OF IOWA 10 MILES INTO MINNESOTA
IF YOU COULD FIND A
PLACE TO HITCH THEM TO.
[HAMMERING]
PA CAME HOME AT SUNSET. AND
THEN HE WORKED BY LANTERN LIGHT.
MA SAID HE ATE HIS SUPPER
WHILE HE WAS WORKING.
AND ALMOST IT WAS TRUE.
BECAUSE IT HAPPENED
MOSTLY IN THE DARK.
OUR HOUSE GREW LIKE THE
MUSHROOMS WE FOUND IN THE WOODS.
IT WAS KIND OF LIKE WE
WERE ALL HOLDING OUR BREATH
AND THEN ONE DAY OUR NEW
HOUSE WAS THERE. ALL DONE.
AND IT WAS MOVING-IN DAY.
CAN WE GO IN NOW?
NOT JUST YET.
CHARLES!
[GIGGLES]
WE'VE ALL BEEN IN
THE HOUSE 100 TIMES.
NO. BUT NOT TODAY.
TODAY'S SPECIAL.
CAN WE GO MAKE OUR BED?
OF COURSE.
DON'T FORGET YOUR PILLOWS.
Mary: OUR NEW BED'S WAY BIGGER
THAN OUR OTHER ONE AND SOFTER. TOO.
THIS IS THE BEST
HOUSE WE'VE EVER HAD.
WE HAVE OUR OWN WINDOW.
AND WE CAN SEE THE STARS.
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE SLEEPING
WHEN THE STARS ARE OUT.
AND IT WILL SURE BE NICER
TO HEAR THE RAIN ON THE ROOF
THAN TO HAVE IT GET US ALL WET.
COME ON. YOU'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE HELPING ME MAKE THE BED.
OUR OWN WINDOW.
A WOOD FLOOR.
REAL GLASS WINDOWS.
A ROOM FOR THE
GIRLS. AND ONE FOR US.
DON'T FORGET... A
DOOR THAT LOCKS.
THAT. TOO.
NOW IF I HEAR WOLVES AT
NIGHT. I WON'T BE AFRAID.
WE'VE HEARD THEM
LOTS TIMES BEFORE.
IF YOU WERE AFRAID
I NEVER KNEW IT.
I WAS. BUT I WON'T BE NOW.
AT LEAST WE DON'T HAVE
TO FEAR THE WEATHER.
STILL HAVE A MOUNTAIN OF WORK
TO DO AND LOTS OF THINGS WE NEED.
A PLOW. A HARROW. AND SEED.
CARRIE!
UH-OH. HEY! COME ON NOW. MUNCH.
YOUR ROOM'S DOWNSTAIRS. OK?
I'M NOT TOO WORRIED
ABOUT THE HARROW.
I CAN MAKE ONE THAT WILL WORK
TILL I CAN GET A STORE-BOUGHT.
BUT PLOW AND SEED...
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO WORK
THAT OUT IN TOWN TOMORROW.
HOW? WE HAVE NO CASH.
WELL. I'LL WORK IT OUT. YOU LET
ME WORRY ABOUT IT. ALL RIGHT?
ALL RIGHT.
CARRIE!
I'LL GET HER.
HI.
Mary: CARRIE. YOU'RE NOT
SUPPOSED TO BE UP HERE.
HOW'D SHE CLIMB THE LADDER?
Pa: WHAT ARE YOU CLIMBING
AROUND THE HOUSE FOR?
YOU KNOW YOU'RE NOT
SUPPOSED TO DO THAT.
GUESS SHE HAD TO SEE
WHAT WAS UP HERE THOUGH.
BED ALL RIGHT?
IT'S SOFT.
Mary: I LOVE IT. PA.
GOOD. HERE. LET ME TRY IT.
OH. HEY. IT'S PRETTY
NICE IF I DO SAY SO MYSELF.
HOW DO YOU LIKE YOUR ROOM?
IT'S WONDERFUL.
YEAH. AND I'VE
DECIDED SOMETHING.
WHAT'S THAT. HALF-PINT?
HOME IS THE NICEST
WORD THERE IS.
ONE OF THE NICEST.
THAT'S FOR SURE.
YOU LIKE HOME?
GOOD.
'CAUSE WE GOT ONE NOW.
MORNING. WORKING HARD?
MORNING. INGALLS. NOT TOO HARD.
MR. INGALLS. GOOD MORNING.
MR. OLESON. HOW YOU DOING?
THIS IS THE FELLA
I TOLD YOU ABOUT
I RAN INTO OVER
AT HANSON'S MILL.
MA'AM.
WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?
WELL. I'D LIKE A PLOW
AND WHEAT SEED.
ENOUGH FOR 100 ACRES.
I UNDERSTAND YOU'RE
BUILDING A HOUSE OUT THERE.
GOT IT ALL FINISHED YESTERDAY.
START BREAKING SOD SOON
AS I CAN GET THAT PLOW.
I. UH. I DON'T HAVE
ANY MONEY RIGHT NOW.
I'D LIKE TO PLEDGE A
SHARE ON MY FIRST CROP.
WE DO GIVE CREDIT
TO A FEW FARMERS
THAT WE'VE KNOWN
FOR A LONG TIME.
BUT ONLY TO A FEW OF THEM.
THERE IS A REASON. WE NEED
THE MONEY TO BUY THE THINGS
THAT WE NEED TO
KEEP IN BUSINESS.
I UNDERSTAND. CASH ON A BARREL.
AND THAT'S THE WAY I
LIKE TO DEAL AND WHEEL.
JUST AS SOON AS I GET
THAT FIRST CROP TO SELL.
MR. INGALLS. DO YOU KNOW HOW
MANY FAMILIES MOVE OUT HERE
AND PLANT THEIR CROPS AND RUN UP
MORE BILLS THAN THEY CAN HOPE TO PAY FOR
AND THEN SKIP OUT IN
THE DEAD OF NIGHT? HMM?
NOW. I COULD SHOW YOU
A WHOLE DRAWER FULL...
MRS. OLESON. I CAN ASSURE
YOU I HAD NO INTENTION OF
RUNNING OUT IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT.
THANK YOU.
MR. INGALLS. I... THERE'S
REALLY NO WAY THAT I CAN...
I UNDERSTAND.
LOOKING AT MY FINE
PLOWS. ARE YOU?
YEAH.
WOULD YOU BE NEEDING ONE?
SURE COULD. NAME'S INGALLS.
LIAM O'NEIL. PLEASED
TO KNOW YOU.
YEAH. I NEED A PLOW AND
SEED. ENOUGH FOR 100 ACRES.
WELL. YOU'VE COME
TO THE RIGHT MAN.
I SELL ONLY THE BEST.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CASH.
THEN I'LL THANK YOU
FOR NOT WASTING MY TIME.
YEAH. I GOT SOMETHING
YOU NEED MORE THAN MONEY.
HAVE YOU NOW?
WELL. WHAT IS IT THAT I COULD
NEED OR USE MORE THAN MONEY?
KNOW-HOW. ENOUGH TO PUT
A NEW ROOF ON THAT SHED.
IF IT HAD BEEN BUILT PROPER.
IT WOULD HAVE NEVER CAVED IN.
I BOUGHT THIS BUSINESS FOR CASH. AND
I'D NO SOONER TURNED THE MONEY OVER
THEN THE LAST SNOWS OF WINTER
CAME. AND THEY CRASHED IN THE ROOF.
I'LL BUILD YOU A ROOF THAT
WILL SUPPORT UNDER ANY SNOW.
FOR A PLOW AND SEED.
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND WHO'LL BE
SUPPLYING THE MATERIAL?
WELL. YOU WILL.
WELL. IN THAT CASE. ME LAD. I'LL
BE NEEDING A BIT MORE ON MY SIDE
TO MAKE THE BARGAIN EVEN.
I'M FREIGHTING IN SOME
SACKS OF GRAIN FROM MANKATO.
YOU'D BE STACKING THOSE
IN THE SHED AND NEATLY. TOO.
CONSIDER IT DONE.
SATISFY ME ON ONE THING MORE
AND WE CAN SHAKE HANDS ON IT.
I SEE YOU WORKING AT
HANSON'S EVERY DAY.
HOW YOU GOING TO GET
LOOSE TO WORK FOR ME?
ALREADY ARRANGED FOR THAT.
WORK FOR YOU IN THE MORNING.
WORK FOR HANSON IN THE AFTERNOON.
YOU'RE BITING OFF A BIG PIECE.
I'LL BE AFTER WANTING
THIS DONE IN 3 WEEKS.
IT WILL BE DONE.
SAYING'S ONE THING.
BUT DOING'S ANOTHER.
YOU GOT MY WORD ON IT.
HA HA. WELL. IF
SOMETHING GOES WRONG.
YOUR WORD IS NOT GOING TO
KEEP THE RAIN OUT OF MY SHED.
I'M THINKING I'LL BE NEEDING
A BIT OF COLLATERAL.
LIKE WHAT?
I SEE YOU DRIVING A
FAIR YOKE OF OXEN.
NOW. JUST KEEP IT BUSINESSLIKE.
YOU SIGN A CHATTEL MORTGAGE
LEAVING THE ANIMALS TO ME
IN CASE YOU DON'T DO
THE WORK AS PROMISED.
NOW. NO OFFENSE. INGALLS.
NO OFFENSE MEANT AT ALL.
IT'S JUST THAT BEING BURNED
ONCE. YOU FEAR THE FIRE.
I WAS A BELIEVING MAN ONCE UNTIL A
SHED SWORN TO BE SOUND FELL DOWN.
I BUILD A ROOF AND
STACK THE GRAIN.
IN 3 WEEKS.
MY HAND ON IT.
AND I HOPE YOU'LL BE
KEEPING YOUR PROMISE.
THERE'S NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
THE HOUSE IS ALL FINISHED
EXCEPT FOR A CUPBOARD
AND A FEW SHELVES.
THERE'S NO HURRY ABOUT THOSE.
ALL RIGHT. SO I WORK
AT O'NEIL'S FOR 6 HOURS.
I WORK 6 HOURS AT
HANSON'S. THAT'S 12 HOURS.
THAT GIVES ME PLENTY OF TIME FOR THE
PLOWING AND THE REST OF THE CHORES.
WITH GOING AND COMING
AND EATING YOUR LUNCH.
IT'S MORE LIKE 15 HOURS.
WITH FARM WORK ON TOP OF THAT.
YOU WON'T HAVE ANY TIME TO REST.
IT'S ONLY FOR 3 WEEKS.
IT'S A LONG TIME TO
WALK IN YOUR SLEEP.
I CAN DO IT.
I BELIEVE YOU CAN.
MARY. CUT UP CARRIE'S
HOT CAKES FOR HER. PLEASE.
LAURA'S RIGHT THERE.
WHY CAN'T SHE DO IT?
BECAUSE SHE'S GOING TO
SET A PLACE FOR HER FATHER.
WHOA. WHOA. I HAVEN'T
GOT TIME TO EAT.
I'M LATE FOR WORK ALREADY.
OH. CHARLES. YOU HAVE TO EAT.
I HAD SOME CORNBREAD
THIS MORNING.
WAIT.
YOU CAN EAT THESE ON THE RUN.
ALL RIGHT. FINE.
SEE YOU TONIGHT!
I WANT MOLASSES.
YES. DEAR. YOUR FATHER
FORGOT HIS LUNCH.
HERE. LAURA. RUN. CATCH HIM!
PA! PA! FORGOT YOUR LUNCH!
OH. THANK YOU. DARLING.
HAVE A NICE DAY.
MORNING.
OH. INGALLS.
I'M DOC BAKER.
WE HAVEN'T MET. BUT HANSON
POINTED YOU OUT TO ME.
PLEASURE TO MEET YOU. GOT
A LITTLE RIM TROUBLE. HUH?
THE WHOLE WHEEL'S FALLEN APART.
WELL. I CAN WEDGE
IT FOR YOU FOR NOW.
YOU CAN?
SURE.
I'D BE IN YOUR DEBT.
NO TROUBLE AT ALL.
AND I THANK YOU FOR NOT POINTING
OUT IT WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED
IF I'D REMEMBERED TO SOAK
THE WHEEL AND SWELL THE WOOD.
AH. HAPPENS TO ALL OF US.
WELL. I WAS ABOUT
TO START WALKING.
NOT LOOKING FORWARD TO IT.
HAVING BEEN UP ALL
NIGHT WITH A NEW MOTHER.
I'D BE HAPPY TO PAY
YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
NO. THANK YOU. JUST A RIDE
INTO WALNUT GROVE WILL BE FINE.
HUH. YOU GOT IT.
HANSON TOLD ME YOU WERE
A GOOD MAN TO HAVE AROUND.
MILL WORK. BUILDING
YOUR OWN HOUSE.
HE TOLD ME YOU WERE GOING TO
START REPAIRING O'NEIL'S SHACK.
YEAH. WORD GETS AROUND FAST.
IN A TOWN THE SIZE OF WALNUT
GROVE. QUICKER THAN SCAT.
I THINK YOU'RE A WELCOME
ADDITION TO OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
I HEAR YOU HAVE
A NICE FAMILY. TOO.
I THINK SO.
[LOUD WHISTLE]
Doc: INGALLS.
HEY. DOC.
YOU KNOW. IT'S ONLY
BY THE GRACE OF GOD
A COUNTRY DOCTOR DOESN'T
CACKLE WHEN HE TALKS.
YOU'LL NEVER GUESS
HOW MANY TIMES
MY PATIENTS PAY THEIR
BILLS WITH CHICKENS.
I COULDN'T BEGIN TO GUESS.
COURSE IT COULD BE I'M
PERPETUATING THE SYSTEM.
I'VE STARTED MORE FLOCKS
THAN I CAN REMEMBER.
I HOPE YOU CAN USE THESE.
COME ON. IT'S JUST A
LITTLE ADDED THANKS
FOR YOUR HELP THIS MORNING.
LOOK. DOC. IT'S NOT
THAT WE CAN'T USE THEM...
GO AHEAD AND TAKE THEM. INGALLS.
MAKE THE OLD MAN HAPPY.
YOU KNOW. HE WOULDN'T
DARE KEEP THOSE CHICKENS
BECAUSE THEY WOULD DIE ON HIM AND
THEN FOLKS WOULD KNOW HE'S A FRAUD.
FRAUD! WHY. YOU OLD BILLY GOAT!
YOU CAN'T EVEN BLOW
A WHISTLE ON TIME.
HE'S 3 MINUTES LATE.
NEJ! YOU ARE 3 MINUTES EARLY.
IT'S THAT CHEAP WATCH OF HIS.
CHEAP. IS IT? INGALLS.
I'LL HAVE YOU KNOW
THIS IS A VERY
EXPENSIVE CHRONOMETER
GIVEN TO ME WHEN I GRADUATED
FROM MEDICAL SCHOOL.
OH. BUT IF IT'S THAT
OLD. IT'S AN HOURGLASS.
WHEN HE GRADUATED.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE WATCHES.
YOU AND YOUR WATCH
ARE BOTH OLDER THAN I AM...
[LOUD WHISTLE]
MA. THE WHISTLE'S BLOWING!
LAURA. DON'T LET
THE STEW BOIL DRY.
AS SOON AS I GET
THE OXEN YOKED UP.
I WANT YOU AND MARY TO TAKE
THEM TO THE FIELD FOR YOUR FATHER.
Laura: IN MY REMEMBRANCE BOOK.
I'D PUT DOWN HOW PA USED
EVERY MINUTE OF DAYLIGHT
AND A LOT OF THE DARK.
HE SAID HE WAS COUNTING THE DAYS
TILL HE COULD STAY HOME
AND JUST WORK THE FARM.
THE REST OF US ONLY
COUNTED THE DAYS TILL SUNDAY.
THE LORD'S DAY.
WHEN PA TOOK US ALL TO CHURCH.
AS I LOOK OUT ON
OUR CONGREGATION.
I MUST SAY I'M DISTRESSED.
NOW. I SEE MANY FAMILIAR FACES.
BUT I ALSO SEE THE
ABSENCE OF MANY OTHERS.
I SEE MANY WIVES HERE
WITHOUT THEIR HUSBANDS.
I'M SURE IF THEY HAD LOST A LOVED ONE
DURING THE WEEK. I'D HAVE HEARD ABOUT IT.
NOW. WE'RE ALL OF US SINNERS.
SOME TO A LESSER
DEGREE THAN OTHERS.
BUT NONETHELESS SINNERS.
IT IS ONLY BY GOING TO CHURCH
AND ASKING THE LORD'S FORGIVENESS
THAT WE MAY BE
CLEANSED OF OUR SINS.
THINK UPON THAT AS WE
SING OUR CLOSING HYMN...
COME. SINNER. COME.
♪ COME. SINNER. COME ♪
♪ WHY WILL YOU LONGER DELAY? ♪
♪ JESUS LOVES YOU ♪
♪ HIS LOVE IS TRUE ♪
♪ HE WILL NOT TURN YOU AWAY ♪
Laura: MOSTLY I LIKE CHURCH
BETTER THAN SUNDAY SCHOOL.
BUT NOT TODAY.
OH. WHY NOT?
JUST BECAUSE.
I KNOW WHY.
BECAUSE REVEREND ALDEN SAID.
"IF YOU DON'T GO TO
CHURCH. YOU'RE A SINNER.
AND SINNERS ARE PUNISHED."
OH. I THINK HE MEANT PEOPLE
WHO NEVER GO TO CHURCH AT ALL.
THEN PA WON'T BE PUNISHED.
NO. DEAR. YOUR
FATHER'S A GOOD MAN.
HE'S WORN OUT. HE NEEDS TO REST.
MORE THAN HE NEEDS CHURCH?
YES. HE'S TIRED.
THERE'S PA!
YOU GIRLS CATCH UP WITH CARRIE.
CHARLES INGALLS!
CAROLINE!
YOU'RE BACK ALREADY. HUH?
EARLIER THAN
EXPECTED. OBVIOUSLY.
WELL. WHAT ARE
YOU TALKING ABOUT?
YOU COULDN'T STAY AWAKE TO GO TO
CHURCH. AND HERE YOU ARE WORKING.
OH. CAROLINE. I WOKE
UP AND YOU WERE GONE.
I JUST COULDN'T SIT AROUND
THE HOUSE DOING NOTHING.
CHARLES. THE LORD'S DAY IS SET
ASIDE FOR WORSHIP AND FOR REST.
CAROLINE. I GOT A FIELD TO PLOW.
AND GOD ISN'T GOING TO PLOW IT FOR ME.
THAT IS SACRILEGIOUS!
WELL. TO YOU MAYBE.
BUT NOT TO GOD.
HE UNDERSTANDS FARMERS. HYAH!
I'M SORRY I DIDN'T GO TO CHURCH.
YOU SHOULD HAVE GONE TO CHURCH.
THAT'S WHY I JUST SAID I'M
SORRY I DIDN'T GO TO CHURCH.
IT'S NOT CHURCH
I'M WORRIED ABOUT.
IT'S YOU. YOU'RE
WORKING MUCH TOO HARD.
NO. THE WORST PART OF IT'S OVER.
IT'S JUST A LITTLE WHILE NOW.
COME ON. BEAR WITH ME. HUH?
TIME SPENT BEING ANGRY
WITH YOU IS SUCH A WASTE.
I'M SORRY.
SO AM I.
INGALLS!
YEAH.
I'VE BEEN LOOKING AT YOUR TIME SHEET.
THE DAYS AND HOURS THAT YOU WORKED.
AND YOUR LUMBER BILL.
TODAY AT QUITTING TIME.
I OWE YOU HALF A DOLLAR.
YOU SURPRISED?
NO. NOT SURPRISED.
PLEASED IS THE WORD.
I'VE BEEN KEEPING TRACK MYSELF.
KIND OF LIKE
CLIMBING A MOUNTAIN.
YOU CAN'T WAIT TILL
YOU GET TO THE TOP.
HA HA HA! JA. I AM PLEASED. TOO.
YOU'VE BEEN WORKING HARD.
HOW'S THE WORK
COMING AT O'NEIL'S?
ALL BUT FINISHED.
I TELL YOU WHAT. WHEN YOU
GET FINISHED OVER THERE
AND YOU GET YOURSELF A REST.
IF YOU WANT TO. COME AND
WORK HALF-DAYS FOR ME.
I WOULD LIKE THAT.
I'D LIKE IT. TOO.
GOOD. HA HA!
THANK YOU.
CAROLINE!
WHAT IS IT?
WELL. I AM HOME.
THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
AND I'M STARVING. WOMAN.
GET MY SUPPER WHILE I WASH UP.
[HUMMING]
AH. THAT'S GOOD!
YOU'RE REALLY FEELING GOOD.
OH. IT'S A FINE DAY.
WHERE ARE THE GIRLS?
IN BED.
IN BED! THE SUN'S HARDLY DOWN.
A LITTLE EARLY TO BE PUTTING
THEM INTO BED. ISN'T IT?
WELL. IT JUST SEEMED EASIER AND
QUIETER IF THEY WEREN'T UNDERFOOT.
I'LL GET YOUR SUPPER.
HAVE I BEEN THAT BAD?
I DO REMEMBER TELLING THEM
TO BE QUIET A COUPLE OF TIMES.
A COUPLE.
A FEW.
4.
I'M SORRY.
WHY DON'T YOU GET MY SUPPER.
AND I'LL BE DOWN IN A MINUTE.
WELCOME HOME.
GET MY SUPPER.
KIND OF EARLY TO
BE ASLEEP. ISN'T IT?
WELL. WE WEREN'T
QUITE ASLEEP. PA.
OH. THAT'S GOOD. I THOUGHT
I MIGHT TELL YOU A STORY.
- YES. PA!
- OH. PLEASE. PA!
ALL RIGHT. LET ME SEE.
OH. YEAH. I'VE GOT ONE
ABOUT A GRUMPY FARMER.
SEE. THIS GRUMPY FARMER USED TO
GET UP EVERY MORNING BEFORE SUNRISE
AND STOMP OFF TO WORK.
SOMETIMES HE'D EVEN
FORGET TO SAY GOOD-BYE
TO HIS WIFE AND HIS
3 PRETTY LITTLE GIRLS.
AND EVERY NIGHT
WHEN IT GOT DARK.
HIS WIFE WOULD PUT HIS 3
PRETTY GIRLS TO BED REAL EARLY
SO HE WOULDN'T GRUMP
AT THEM WHEN HE GOT HOME.
THAT MADE THE WHOLE
FAMILY FEEL KIND OF SAD
'CAUSE THEY COULD REMEMBER WHEN
HE USED TO HAVE TIME FOR HIS WIFE
AND TIME TO PLAY GAMES
WITH HIS 3 PRETTY LITTLE GIRLS.
EVEN TAKE THEM TO CHURCH.
SO ONE DAY THAT FARMER LOOKED
AROUND AND SAID TO HIMSELF.
"FARMER. YOU'RE A GRUMP."
AND HE FINISHED ALL OF
HIS WORK. ALMOST ALL OF IT.
HE CAME HOME. AND HE TOLD HIS
PRETTY WIFE AND HIS 3 PRETTY GIRLS
THAT TOMORROW HE
WAS GOING TO TAKE THEM
ON THE BIGGEST. BESTEST
ALL-DAY PICNIC OF ALL TIME.
OH. THANK YOU. PA!
I PROMISE NOT TO BE A GRUMP.
Charles: HURRY UP. THE LAST
ONE DOWN'S A ROTTEN EGG!
COME ON. JACK.
WE'RE GOING TO WIN!
[LAUGHING]
HEY. LOOK!
IT'S HIGHER THAN
SOME OF THE BIRDS.
A LOT HIGHER.
I DIDN'T KNOW PA
COULD FLY A KITE.
I DIDN'T EITHER. MARY.
I'LL GET IT!
CHARLES!
CHARLES.
NO.
OHH.
DON'T MOVE.
LAURA. RUN GET MR. HANSON.
TELL HIM PA NEEDS
DR. BAKER AND A WAGON!
HURRY!
NEVER CEASES TO AMAZE ME THE
WAYS MAN CAN FIND TO HURT HISSELF.
CLIMBING TREES! WONDER
YOU DIDN'T BREAK YOUR NECK.
COULDN'T HURT ANY
WORSE THAN THIS DOES.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW INTO BED.
EASY.
OHH.
PAINFUL. HUH?
JUST A WEE BIT. DOC.
WELL. THAT'S TO BE
EXPECTED WITH 4 BROKEN RIBS.
BUT YOU'LL MEND FAST. YOU'LL BE UP
AND MOVING AROUND IN A WEEK. 10 DAYS.
JA. THE REST WILL DO YOU GOOD.
I CAN'T SPEND A WEEK IN BED.
I GOT A LOT OF WORK TO DO.
YOU DO WHAT THE DOC TELLS YOU.
I WILL TALK TO O'NEIL.
THE GRAIN STACKING CAN WAIT.
IT'S NOT JUST
STACKING THE GRAIN.
I GOT PLOWING TO DO. I
GOT WORK IN THE BARN.
IT WILL HAVE TO WAIT.
I'LL CHECK BACK IN A COUPLE
OF DAYS. MRS. INGALLS.
THANK YOU. DOCTOR.
I'LL SEE YOU OUT.
YOU STAY IN BED.
YOU GIRLS DON'T LET
THE CORNBREAD BURN.
YOU'RE LOOKING BETTER.
I'M FEELING BETTER.
THAT SOUP SMELLS GOOD.
CAN I ASK YOU A FAVOR?
MMM.
I DON'T WANT YOU TO GO OUT
AND DO ANY PLOWING ANYMORE.
WE'VE ALREADY TALKED THAT OUT.
NO. I TALKED. BUT
YOU DIDN'T LISTEN.
THE FIELD HAS TO BE HARROWED
BEFORE IT CAN BE PLANTED.
NOW. GOD ISN'T GOING TO DO IT.
Laura: CORNBREAD'S DONE. MA.
COMING. DEAR.
THAT ISN'T
SACRILEGIOUS. YOU SAID IT.
IF GOD UNDERSTANDS FARMERS.
HE UNDERSTANDS FARMERS' WIVES.
MRS. INGALLS.
YES.
I'M LIAM O'NEIL.
YOUR HUSBAND CONTRACTED
TO DO SOME WORK FOR ME.
YES. HOW ARE YOU?
TROUBLED. MA'AM. YOUR HUSBAND
LEFT A SIGHT OF WORK UNDONE.
HE WAS HURT. DR. BAKER
TOLD HIM TO STAY IN BED.
YES. I AM SORRY THAT
I AM TO HEAR THAT.
BUT THAT HAS NOTHING TO
DO WITH THE MATTER AT HAND.
A CHATTEL MORTGAGE. MA'AM.
YOUR HUSBAND SIGNED IT.
GUARANTEEING THAT THE
WORK WOULD BE DONE ON TIME
OR THE YOKE OF OXEN
WOULD FORFEIT TO ME.
WELL. THE WORK WASN'T DONE. AND
THAT'S THE PLAIN AND SIMPLE FACT.
I KNOW. MR. O'NEIL. BUT MR. HANSON
WAS SUPPOSED TO TELL YOU
MY HUSBAND WAS HURT.
HURT HAS NOTHING TO
DO WITH THE MATTER.
YOUR HUSBAND FAILED
TO DO AS HE PROMISED.
AND NOW THE OXEN ARE MINE.
SO I'VE COME TO PICK THEM UP.
PLEASE DON'T DO THIS.
I KNOW HOW YOU FEEL. TRULY I DO.
BUT IF YOUR HUSBAND WAS IN MY
POSITION. HE'D DO EXACTLY THE SAME THING.
I'M SORRY.
SULLIVAN!
DR. BAKER SAID YOU
WEREN'T TO GET OUT OF BED.
HE SAID LOTS OF THINGS.
PLEASE. JUST TELL ME WHAT O'NEIL SAID
WHEN HE SHOWED YOU THE MORTGAGE.
HE SAID YOU HADN'T DONE
THE WORK. THE OXEN WERE HIS.
NOW THERE WASN'T
ANYTHING I CAN DO ABOUT IT.
THERE ISN'T ANYTHING
YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT.
I NEVER SHOULD HAVE SIGNED IT.
BUT YOU DID SIGN IT.
AND YOU CAN'T FIGHT IT.
NOW PLEASE GO BACK TO BED
BEFORE YOU HURT YOURSELF.
NO. MR. O'NEIL AND I ARE
GOING TO HAVE ANOTHER TALK.
- THIS ISN'T OVER.
- BUT IT IS!
NO. IT ISN'T. 'CAUSE
I'M NOT GOING TO LET IT.
WE LOSE THOSE OXEN.
I CAN'T MAKE A CROP.
WE LOSE EVERYTHING.
IT HAPPENED TO ME IN KANSAS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN HERE.
GO HOME. JACK. GO HOME.
GO HOME.
[HAMMER POUNDING]
DORFLER. IF IT'S
ALL RIGHT WITH YOU.
I'LL GIVE YOU SOME CHICKENS IN
PAYMENT FOR THIS SHOEING JOB.
I GOT MORE CHICKENS
NOW THAN I CAN USE.
HALF MY CUSTOMERS BEEN
PAYING ME WITH CHICKENS.
I NEVER THOUGHT OF THAT.
WELL. LOOK WHO'S HERE.
INGALLS.
I THOUGHT YOU SAID HE WAS
GOING TO BE IN BED FOR A WHILE.
THAT'S WHERE HE SHOULD BE.
WELL. INGALLS. YOU'RE
LOOKING POORLY. LAD.
I DIDN'T COME HERE TO
TALK ABOUT MY HEALTH.
'TWAS ONLY A POLITENESS.
I WANT TO SEE THE MORTGAGE.
YOU DID WHEN YOU SIGNED IT. LAD.
THEN I'LL SEE IT AGAIN. NOW.
AH. 'TIS THE DATE YOU'RE
WONDERING ABOUT.
THE CONTRACT EXPIRES TONIGHT.
THEN THE OXEN ARE STILL MINE.
WELL. FOR A FEW WEE
HOURS MORE. TILL MIDNIGHT.
I WAS OUT YOUR WAY
ON ANOTHER MATTER.
I KNEW THAT YOU WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO KEEP YOUR PROMISE HERE.
SO YOU STOLE THE OXEN.
WELL. NO. LAD. I WAS
JUST DOING YOU A FAVOR.
SAVING YOU A TRIP INTO TOWN.
IF YOU WANT TO DO ME A FAVOR.
YOU'LL GIVE ME A COUPLE MORE DAYS.
OH. SORRY AS I AM. BY THE LOOK OF
YOU. IT WOULD TAKE A LOT MORE THAN THAT.
BESIDES. WHEN A BARGAIN IS
STRUCK AND A PAPER SIGNED.
ALL PARTIES HAVE TO ABIDE BY IT.
WELL. I INTEND TO. I GOT TILL MIDNIGHT
TO KEEP MY END OF THE BARGAIN.
I GOT A LOT OF STACKING
TO DO. I BEST GET AT IT.
WONDER WHAT HE'S UP TO.
IT LOOKS LIKE HE'S
GOING BACK TO WORK.
HMM.
PA! PA!
MARY... HALF-PINT. I
WANT YOU TO GO HOME.
HEAR ME. I WANT YOU TO GO HOME.
COME ON. WE'LL DO IT.
NOW. FELLERS. NOW.
THIS IS ALL A MISTAKE.
LOOK. I NEVER MEANT
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE.
UH. LOOK...
IT WAS A BUSINESS DEAL. NOW.
THAT'S ALL IT WAS. WAS JUST BUSINESS.
I... UH... WHEN I SAW THE POOR LAD
FALL DOWN AND HIM AND THAT SACK.
AND THEN THE WEE ONES.
THEY'RE COMING TO HELP THEIR PA.
LOOK. WELL. I SWEAR
ON MY MOTHER'S GRAVE.
I WAS GOING TO
GIVE THE OXEN BACK.
GO SLOWLY NOW. INGALLS.
IT'S THE WAY THE OXEN LIKE IT.
MY THANKS TO ALL OF YOU.
OH. IT DID US GOOD
TO SWEAT A LITTLE.
I JUST WISH THERE WAS
SOME WAY I COULD REPAY YOU.
UH. JA. THERE IS SOMETHING.
UM. WE'VE BEEN THINKING OF HOLDING
A PLOWING AND HARROWING CONTEST
AT THE CHURCH ON SUNDAY.
AND IT WOULD BE A FAVOR TO
US IF WE COULD USE YOUR LAND.
GOT A DEAL.
DEAL.
THANK YOU.
COME ON. LET'S GO HOME.
UH-HUH.
YOU'RE STILL 3 MINUTES EARLY.
Laura: THAT WAS OUR
HAPPIEST HOMECOMING EVER.
PA SAID HE WAS GLAD WE'D COME
TO LIVE ON THE BANKS OF PLUM CREEK.
BECAUSE HERE HE'D HARVESTED A
CROP HE DIDN'T KNOW HE'D PLANTED...
A HARVEST OF FRIENDS.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-